--- DIRECTIONAL LIGHTS ---
A directional light represents a light source that is infinitely far away—it
has no position relative to your 3D objects. As such, the light rays that reach your objects are
parallel to one another—they all travel in the same direction. The sun (while not infinitely
distant) is a good example of a directional light. It’s so far away that you cannot discern a difference
in the direction of individual rays of light.

To model a directional light, you simply need a three-dimensional vector describing where the
light is coming from. You can also include the concept of color and intensity, just as you did
for ambient lighting.


--- POINT LIGHTS ---
A point light in a scene is like a light bulb—it has a position that is local to your surroundings,
and it radiates light in all directions. This is in contrast to a directional light, which is infinitely
far away and whose light appears to come from a single direction. Directional lights have no
concept of “moving the light;” point lights have no concept of “rotating the light.”

You can use the same diffuse and specular lighting models with point lights, just as with directional
lights. But with point lights, you supply the light’s position and then must compute the
light vector. This is a simple matter of subtracting the position of the object from the position
of the light (where both positions are in world space).

Additionally, because point lights have a specific location, you can attenuate the light with
respect to the distance from the surface. The farther the light is from the surface, the less
brightness it imparts:

Attenuation = 1.0f - |lightDirection| / lightRadius

Storing the attenuation factor in the .w component of the LightDirection
vector is just an efficiency trick. Because that channel isn’t otherwise employed,
you can use it instead of occupying another output register unnecessarily.
The attenuation factor bears no relation to the xyz components of the
LightDirection vector.


--- SPOT LIGHTS ---
A spotlight is a combination of a directional light and a point light. It has a position in world
space, but it shines light in a specific direction. Furthermore, a spotlight attenuates with
distance, as a point light does, but its light also attenuates around its source direction. You can
think of a spotlight as a virtual flashlight, complete with a focus beam that falls off as the light
gets father from the center.

You can model a spotlight with a position, a direction, a radius of influence, a color and
intensity, and floating-point values for inner and outer angles that describe how light radiates
around the focus beam.